## Review for The Structure of the 'THE'-Multiprogramming"

Yuchen You (yuchenxr) & Aug 31, 2025

### Motivation & goal

- What problem is this work addressing?
  - The need to run multiple programs on Dutch machine EL X8
- Why the problem is important?
  - The university need this machine to serve all students and staffs.
- What goals does this work aim to achieve?
  - It aims to design a multiprogramming system that can devide all activities into sequential processes which are placed at various hierarchical levels.
  - The multiprogramming system should work smoothly for a continuous flow of user programs as a service to the University.
    - Reduction of turn-around time for programs of short durations
    - Economic use of peripheral devices
    - Automatic control of backing store to be combined with the economic use of central processor.
    - The economic feasibility to use the machine for those apps for which only the flexibility of a general purpose computer is needed but not the capacity nor the processing power.
  - NONGOALS:
    - a multiaccess system
    - cater for user programs written in machine language

### Related work

- What are the state-of-the-art solutions addressing this problem?
  - Not mentioned in the paper, but there are some existing multiprogramming systems like IBM's OS/360.
- Why they are inadequate?
  - Not mentioned.

### Idea & insight

- What is the key idea of this work?
  - The design of a multi sequential process, hierarchical system named THE.
- What is the insight, if any, behind this idea?
  - The sequential nature of process can be maintained in the concurrency environment by using hierarchical system, while higher levels' sequential logic relies on the lower levels' execution.
- Why _might_ this idea be better than prior work?
  - Not really mentioned.

### Solution

- Roughly speaking, how does the solution work?
  - The solution works by implementing a hierarchical structure, that higher level process can control and rely on lower levels.
- What are the key techniques and algorithms used in the solution?
  - Hierarchical design philosophy

### Assumption & limitations

- What assumptions do the proposed solution make?
  - Based on limited hardware resources with drum storage.
  - Every layer could only communicate/interact with its immediate neighbors.
- Are these assumptions reasonable? Are there any assumption that the authors did not describe in the paper?
  - Reasonable with modern applications.
- What limitations does this solution have?
  - not making a multiaccess system
  - not cater for user programs written in machine language

### Effectiveness

- What experiments, analyses are conducted to evaluate the solution?
  - They test the system they have written on each different layer with respect to their own specifications and requirements.
    - like level 0, by running the sequential process, check if the time is allocated evenly among them.
- Do these results and analyses back up the paper's claims?
  - Yes.
- Are there any missing aspects in the evaluation?
  - I don't find any data/metrics to support the claims.
  - No comparisons with other existing systems.
  - No robustness/stability testing.

### Comparison

- How does this work compare with some other works we have read/discussed?
  - Not mentioned.
- Does it take a radically different approach or draw a surprising conclusion?
  - Yes. It consider use the level design to achieve sequential process execution with formal verification method.
- Or is it more or less in line with the direction in the other works?
  - Not mentioned. But I think this work is a breaking new ground.

### Learning & thoughts

- Are you convinced that the proposed idea/solution is good?
  - Yes, I think the hierarchical design are still used or relevant today.
- If not, what flaws you see in the work that can be improved?
  - N/A
- What are the new things you learned from this paper?
  - I think the design of the separation of physical page and logical segment is kind of similar to the modern virtual page idea
  - The hierarchical design is also a key aspect that influences modern operating systems/OS implementation.

### Unanswered questions

- What questions are you left with?
  - N/A
- Are there any confusing parts of the paper that are not addressed?
  - N/A
- If you were the authors, is there anything you would do differently?
  - I would like to explain more about the design choices and show more figures.

### Historical papers only

- What historical context (e.g., hardware trend) was the work in?
  - The work was in the context of early computer systems, specifically the Dutch machine EL X8, which required efficient multiprogramming capabilities on limited hardware resources.
- What things you were taking for granted but now understand how they came to be?
  - The design choice of hierarchical system
  - The virtual memory concept, or the separation of physical and logical memory
- Is the paper still relevant for today?
  - Yes, the concepts about the separation of physical and logical memory, and the hierarchical system design are still relevant today.

### Conclusion

- What conclusion do you draw from this work?
  - The design with 5 level hierarchical structure is quite innovative and has influenced many modern operating systems.
- What are the main take-away messages?
  - When designing the system, we could consider the method of separate the problem into layers/levels and solve them independently.
- Can you relate to the findings/solutions/results from your own experience?
  - Yes, just like the OSI lay model in networking, the idea is very similar and still useful.
- How may this work influence the way we build systems in the future?
  - Build with hierarchy, like in the cache design we have L1, L2, L3 caches, RAM, and disks.

### Assigned paper questions

- Q: Dijkstra explicitly states their goals for the THE operating system. How do these goals compare to, say, Microsoft's goals for the Windows operating system? Why do we no longer build operating systems with the same goals as THE?
  - A: The Dijkstra's goals for THE operating system is to create a system for university (student) use, focus on simplicity and sequential. The Windows aims to provide a user-friendly and feature-rich environment (plug and play) system and a robust multitasking capability for global users.
  - A: Modern hardwares are far more powerful and complex to support complicated tasks than the THE system uses. The THE needs make excellent use of the limited hardware resources, but Windows takes advantage of the advancements in hardware to provide more features and better performance. Also the THE system is more for a research/academic usage, while the Windows system is designed for a broader commercial market and thus requires a more user-friendly approach.
