## Review for "Plan 9 from Bell Labs"

Yuchen You (yuchenxr) & Sept. 2, 2025

### Motivation & goal

<!-- Abstract & First part of Introduction
    Abstract structure:
    1. Problem statement (Q1.1), including background and motivation (significance)
    2. Proposed solution (Q1.2)
    3. Evaluation & Result
-->

- What problem is this work addressing?
<!-- first sentence of the abstract -->
  - building small self-maintained personal systems with networks
- Why the problem is important?
<!-- background of the problem, reasons
    sentence after the above question
-->
  - the global rush to the personal workstations
  - old time-sharing systems (like unix) is too difficult to run with network and graphics together.
- What **goals** does this work aim to achieve?
  - to build a cheap, centrally administered, small self-maintained personal system with network, graphics, and easy to use
  - have connection to the large centralized workstations to have access to computation power or file server.

### Related SOTA work

<!-- SOTA Review
    First part of the Introduction, may also include related work section (near last part) -> look for dense reference paragraphs
-->

- What are the state-of-the-art solutions addressing this problem?
  - UNIX workstations
- Why they are inadequate?
<!-- SOTA Frame Name: shortback -->
  - 

### Idea & insight

<!-- Idea & Insight: Second part of the Introduction
    Second part of Intro will show the tools/algos the work uses (the insights, background principles of their work but not the implementation, which is the third part)
-->

- What is the key idea of this work?
<!-- Tool/Algo name: function statement -->
- What is the insight, if any, behind this idea?
<!-- Insight: background principles, why it works -->
- Why _might_ this idea be better than prior work?
<!-- Innovation of the insight, it's the combination of "SOTA shortback" and "Idea & Insight" -->

### Solution

<!-- Solution: it should be found in the Method/Design section
    For the design overview in the Intro part, it's too general, but in Design section it should be concrete enough.
    It's very important to read the flow chart/diagrams in this section, usually the solutions are presented visually.
-->

- Roughly speaking, how does the solution work?
<!-- read the figure (flow chart) -->
- What are the key techniques and algorithms used in the solution?
<!-- read the bullet point/bold text in the introduction, they should be listed as keywords there -->

### Assumption & limitations

<!-- Assumption keyword:
    1. we believe ...
    2. suppose
    3. assume
    4. suggest
-->

<!-- Limitation keyword:
    1. restrict
    2. consider
    3. focus on
    4. ignore
    5. limit
    6. model
-->

- What assumptions do the proposed solution make?
- Are these assumptions reasonable? Are there any assumption that the authors did not describe in the paper?
- What limitations does this solution have?

### Effectiveness

<!-- Evaluation Section and Related Work
    1. Evaluation:
      - Setup: datasets, metrics, baselines
    2. Analysis:
      - Result back up the hypothesis
      - Error analysis, etc.
-->

- What experiments, analyses are conducted to evaluate the solution?
<!-- setup, eval method (data process) -->
- Do these results and analyses back up the paper's claims?
- Are there any missing aspects in the evaluation?
<!-- Consider robustness, end-to-end, scalability test -->

### Comparison

- How does this work compare with some other works we have read/discussed?
<!-- Consider the SOTA in the prev part, but here compare with result data -->
- Does it take a radically different approach or draw a surprising conclusion?
- Or is it more or less in line with the direction in the other works?

### Learning & thoughts

- Are you convinced that the proposed idea/solution is good?
  - that it will work well in practice?
  - e.g., will you be comfortable using it?
- If not, what **flaws** you see in the work that can be improved?
- What are the new things you learned from this paper?

### Unanswered questions

- What questions are you left with?
- Are there any confusing parts of the paper that are not addressed?
- If you were the authors, is there anything you would do differently?

### Historical papers only

- What historical context (e.g., hardware trend) was the work in?
  - Hardwares are becoming cheaper, and the processing speed is increasing, which accelerates the personal small computer's power.
- What things you were taking for granted but now understand how they came to be?
  - the privacy idea in the network era, why are they so important in the networked (distributed) system?
- Is the paper still relevant for today?
  - If so, in what way?
  - If not, what has changed?

### Conclusion

- What conclusion do you draw from this work?
- What are the main take-away messages?
- Can you relate to the findings/solutions/results from your own experience?
- How may this work influence the way we build systems in the future?

### Assigned paper questions

- Q: XXX
  - A:
