# Summary of "A Decentralized SDN Architecture for the WAN"
Yuchen You (yuchenxr)

## Problem and Motivation

- **Problem**: Traditional centralized SDN (cSDN) are too heavy and slow and do
  not keep the "fate-sharing" feature, which are kind of hard to debug.
- **Motivation**: Design a decentralized SDN (dSDN) architecture that is
  lightweight, fast, and keeps the fate-sharing feature.

## Hypothesis

- **Hypothesis** a dSDN could be lightweight, and do not rely on external
hardware driver/infrastructure, thus with high availability and low latency,
which could outperform many traditional cSDN solutions w.r.t SLO satisfaction.

- This could reach simple __consensus-free__ networking
- The development in the router hardware has allowed the external (3rd-party) code to run
and configure itself.

## Solution Overview

### Design overview

1. Learning local and global network state via gRPC communication among
   nodes/routers, which is formed as "Node Status Update".
2. Computing Paths: apply SOTA TE algorithm that could approximate the max-min
   flow high network utilization.
3. Program strict source routes: send the calculation result path into the
   packets with strict path nodes (including all nodes on the path).
4. Fault tolerance: use standard failure detection and recovery mechanisms. Not
   solving the Byzantine failure.
5. Incremental deployment: dSDN could be deployed incrementally, first as the
   backup method for the cSDN, replaing the traditional IS-IS protocol.
6. Upgrading: could coexist with dSDN in different version.

### Experiment overview

1. __Convergence Time__: measure the tiem taken for the nw to converge on a
   change in the network state on B4.
  - Result: dSDN converges much faster overall, with much lower propagation and
    programming latency, and a little higher computation latency than cSDN.
2. __Trasient Impact__: measure the bad time (the integration of the bad rate,
   which is the ratio of SLO-violated flows to all flows at given time stamp) during the re-converging period.
  - Result: dSDN does not lead to worse performance.
3. __Scalability__: test the computation time in a large and complex networking
   environment
  - Result: dSDN computation time is related to the quality of the processor,
  and as long as the number of core is greater than 5 the core number does not
  affects much. Also the computation tims as a upper bound of 106 sec.

## Limitations and Possible Improvements

- No test on real world large(global) networking environment, which may take up a lot of time to converge for a simple local router.
- Add more test cases with real world cases, especially with some chaostic cases
like overloading, etc.
